The Art of Personal Branding
https://youtu.be/wKdElDeMXR0
----------------------------------------

The most valuable thing you could build on the internet right now is a top tier personal brand. And it's not even close. The leverage and opportunities that personal brands are creating in this era is impossible to overstate. It is the single greatest ROI marketing bet. Now, I've studied literally hundreds of the top tier personal brands on the internet. From Hormosi and Cody Sanchez all the way to Tony Robbins and Martha Stewart. And across all of those examples, my number one takeaway will surprise you. Personal branding is not an art. It's a formula. And once you know the formula, you can apply it to build a dominant personal brand in pretty much any category. So, in this video, I'm going to break down the full formula for how to build a winning personal brand in the modern era. It's just four elements, but these are the components that separate all the top people from everyone else. By the way, if you don't know me, my name is Callaway. I have a million followers. I've done billions of views, and this stuff is all I do all day long. All right. The first element of the personal branding formula is association. And this is probably the most important concept to understand in all of marketing. When I say Tony Robbins, you immediately think performance coach. When I say Gary Vee, you immediately think social media or marketing. When I say Martha Stewart, you immediately think prison. Just kidding, that was a joke. You think homemaking. Now, if you know of these people, you probably didn't have to think very hard to come up with those terms. They kind of just reflexively fire in your brain. Well, that reflex, you combining a person with a category is association. And fundamentally, personal brands are just associations at scale. Now, this idea of combining a subject with a category is not new. The term branding literally comes from cattle ranches. It's a bit morbid, but ranchers would literally burn their mark into a cow so that if anyone saw it, they would associate that cow with its owner. When you're building a personal brand, you're kind of doing the exact same thing. You're trying to burn your name into a category so that when people think of that category, they think of you. Now, I will say association as a concept is pretty obvious once you hear it. But the much more non-obvious thing about personal branding is how you actually build that reflexive association in the first place. And that's exactly what I'm going to answer for you in this video. The short of it is the only way to build association between you and a category in the mind of someone else is to expose them to that association over and over. And the best way to do this is by making content. This is why content really is the engine of personal branding because it allows you to expose that association at scale. In 1800s, JP Morgan, the guy, probably had a pretty strong personal brand in finance. But the only way he could signal that association between him and finance was in person. Digital content applies leverage to scaling these associations in a way that pre-in personal brands just didn't have access to. And this is why if you want to build a personal brand, you have to be creating content of some kind. You might be the greatest fashion designer in the world. But if nobody sees you doing or talking about fashion design, then that association, it never scales. Now, when it comes to building these associations, there are two rules that are really important to keep in mind. First, it's easier to be associated with a small category than a big one. For example, it's way easier to own the category of video storytelling for business owners than it would be to own the category of business. And to visualize this, I like to think of a spiderweb. If you were trying to be the person for business like Hormosi now is, it would require very deep expertise across a lot of different areas. All different types of business models, all different types of skills from traffic to funnels to offers to pricing, all different type of business functions like marketing and sales and legal and finance. That is a massive spiderweb with tons of different spokes and lots of different little mini strands. For most people starting out, that's just way too much ground to cover to build full coverage. And so in your spiderweb, if you tried to do that, you'd have lots of areas where the strands were super thin and weak. On the other hand, trying to build a smaller association, something like video storytelling for business owners, would be much easier to tackle from scratch. Not only is it in the traffic area within the business web, but within traffic, it's in the video area. And within video, it's just in the storytelling area. And within storytelling, it's just for business owners. It's the micro of the micro of the micro. That means way fewer areas to cover in the spiderweb and much thicker strands given the same amount of time. So, rule number one, the narrower the category, the easier it is to build association given the same period. This is why you see so many people that most don't know with very narrow association positioning doing multiple seven figures in their business. And it's because it's much faster to build deep association in narrow pockets than to go broader. Now, the second rule when it comes to personal brand association is that it's much easier to own one category than it is to own five. For the same logic, every extra topic you add in splits the number of content minutes you can build to deepen that association. It'd be much easier just to focus on video storytelling for business owners than to focus on that plus skateboarding plus vintage guitars plus fashion all at the same time. Now, you can always start with a narrow association and then broaden it over time, but it's very hard to start broad and get any sort of traction. The best personal brand strategy for most people is to pick a very small pocket where they have deep expertise, rapidly build extremely deep association, and then over time expand out. This is what Cody Sanchez did. She started with just boring businesses and now she kind of covers general business. It's also what Steven Bartlett did with Diary of a CEO. He kind of started out covering CEO conversations but then expanded out to gen pop culture. This is even what someone like Steven A. Smith in the sports space did. He started out covering just basketball then expanded to all sports and now he covers politics and all types of stuff. And this is exactly what I'm doing as well which you'll see a lot more of soon. Now, there's one last super important cheat code when it comes to scaling association in this era. And people in the personal branding space don't really talk about this, but I think it's so important. Think about the personal brands of like David Gogggins and Discipline or even Clavicular and Looksmaxing. Those associations feel almost bulletproof, but they were built in just a few years. Clav especially has only been around for like 3 to four years max. So, how are both of those people able to build such deep associations without having to make content for decades? The answer is what I call personal brand amplifiers. And this is something that all of the top personal brands are tripling down on right now. If your exposure to David Gogggins or Clav could only come from content they personally posted themselves, they'd be limited in their surface area expansion by a function of their or their team's time. But the reason your associations with them feel so strong is because thousands and thousands of people have been using podcast reactions or viral clips to spread those associations for them. They have activated on purpose or accident a second order effect. For example, Rogan will have clips where he's talking about Gogggins and discipline without Gogggins even being on the episode. And hundreds and hundreds of clipping accounts will share this for free. Clav not only produces an extraordinary amount of content himself, but he's also weaponized a Clipper army that broadcast these clips over thousands and thousands of accounts. These personal brand amplifiers are all increasing the surface area of this association. And that's why personal brands in this era seem to be scaling bigger and faster than ever before. Now, I'm going to get to the exact personal brand formula and how association plays in at the end of this video. But for now, the summary that you need to know about association is this one. Personal branding is just association at scale. Two, the strength of that association maps back to the breadth and depth of how often you see that association. Three, association is really built from you doing and talking about that connection with as many people as possible. And four, you can speed up the growth of association by activating personal brand amplifiers to share clips for you. All right, the second element of the personal brand formula is obsession. And most people don't talk about this, but obsession really is the oxygen of personal branding. And here's what I mean. The personal brands that reach peak association, that are celebrated in their categories, they get there because they are genuinely obsessed with the domain they talk about. Think about some of the biggest personal brands we haven't brought up yet. Dana White for MMA, Steve Jobs for product design, Warren Buffett for investing, Kylie Jenner for cosmetics. These are people that are absolutely obsessed with the domains they associate with. If you want to build a personal brand that cuts through and there is one controllable thing that you could turn the dial up on, it would be your obsession. Now, practically speaking, obsession just translates to the time spent doing the thing. How much time relative to your waking hours do you spend doing, talking about, learning about, and teaching the thing? The biggest reason why most personal brands don't have the foundation solid enough to grow from is that they just haven't spent enough time actually doing this thing. And here's how I think about why this matters. The way to build peak association is to have trust at scale. Trust comes through a lot of content. The way to build trust is to have proof. The way to have proof is to have results. The easiest way to get results is to spend time doing. And the easiest way to spend time doing is to be obsessed with the thing in the first place such that doing is not a chore. Very important to note. If you just talk about a thing that you actually don't do, well, that's fake obsession and your personal brand will never scale. People can sniff that out. Now, tactically, because I've wondered this, how does one cultivate more obsession? And there's a thing that I like to call the obsession gene. Certain people have this proclivity to become extremely obsessed with any domain they focus on. I have this and my wife hates it. Joe Rogan would be a great example of this. Now, you could say Rogan's personal brand actually spans several disciplines: comedy, MMA, podcasting, archery, and pool. But again, he is the exception, not the rule. The only reason he's able to be associated with each of these things is that he is hyper obsessive with every one of them and his podcast has enough content minutes to build associations with each. The truth is, and it's hard to say plainer than this, if you aren't naturally obsessed with the thing you're doing, and you can't force the obsession in, it's going to be very hard to spend enough time doing it to build a viable personal brand. Now, to give you a practical example and a little story about myself, because people always ask in the comments. 18 months ago, I set out to build one of the strongest personal brands in the content strategy space. I looked at all the current players. I decided I was going to build stronger association than all of them. And then I got started from scratch. The precursor and fuel that made this possible is that I became fully obsessed with the topic of content storytelling and content strategy. Like completely redpilled, full obsession. I spent every single hour learning it, doing it, thinking about it, talking about it. And little by little, I started to turn that obsession into skills. Those skills turned into results. Those results turned into proof. That proof turned into trust. And that trust turned into scaled association. Now, I'm still very early in the journey. I'm only like 18 to 24 months into the content strategy brand. I'm like 3 to four years total into content in general. So, most people don't even know me still. But just to give you a sense of how much obsession was required to get to where I am right now. So far, I've created 91 videos on YouTube. 1.2 million hours watched, 72 million watch minutes, and that's just on long form. On short form, it's probably another billion minutes or two. And that's all the content itself. That doesn't cover the thousands and thousands of hours I spent obsessing and doing this stuff behind the scenes before I even made the content. This is just to give you a sense for what it takes to truly come off with the type of association that I have right now. Whether or not you think that's good or bad relative to where I'm at, my point really is obsession or time spent doing is the oxygen that fuels personal brands. And conversely, you really can't build a personal brand unless you spend a lot of time doing, thinking about, and talking about your topic. So, if you want to get started on this personal brand journey, the number one thing to do is pick a space or a category or a niche that you're either already obsessed with or willing to get obsessed with such that you would spend 40 hours per week for the next decade on it. And I'm going to explain exactly how obsession ties into the quantifiable personal brand formula at the end. But for now, just know it is a critical critical piece. All right, before we keep going, if you like the way I'm explaining stuff in this video and you want to understand my personal content strategy, I put together a full system completely for free breaking down exactly what I do. It covers ideas, my systems, how I write hooks, and most importantly, the way I approach monetization, how I turn views into dollars on social media. If you want that, it's completely free. Go to shortformmsystem.co or the links below. All right, so far we've covered two of the four elements in personal branding. association, which is the category or topic discipline that you're tying yourself to, and obsession, which is the foundational intensity of doing and talking about doing that's required to build density around your personal brand. The third element that really matters in personal branding is positioning. And this really is the strategic step of the game. Where association is the choice of which category you connect to, positioning really is the way you message in the content to create or carve your own lane so that your association cuts through. Just making content in a category doesn't necessarily give you a personal brand unless that association is sticky in the viewer's brain. They have to remember you reflexively. And the way to make them remember you in the content is by having superior positioning. Now, there are four core pieces that make up positioning. beliefs, messaging, signal, and taste. Let's break each of those down. The first component is your beliefs. These are the core ideas, principles, or takes that you stand for in your category. So, if you're building your personal brand in manufacturing, these would be the insights or your beliefs about the manufacturing topic. Now, here is the god tier tactic when it comes to winning positioning. You want to develop contrarian beliefs. These are the things that you believe to be true that a vast majority of others in your space would disagree with. My friend Brier calls this counterpositioning. I call it contrarian framing. It's the same thing. You want to position your ideas as different or counter to the consensus. Now, the way to come up with these contrarian frames is to make a list of all the common beliefs that you know to be true in your space and then your counterarguments or counterpositions against them. Now, you're not going to disagree with everything that's common belief, but the three to five things that you staunchly believe everyone is wrong on, those become the core basis for your contrarian beliefs. And the truth is, once you have these documented, making content actually becomes pretty simple. You pick a subtopic in your niche, you state the common belief that everyone thinks, you introduce the contrarian frame that you think everyone is wrong about, and then you explain why your contrarian frame is right. And you just do that over and over. If you watch a lot of my content, this is all I do in every single video. And it's why I've been able to grow so much faster. The truth is, and this will sound weird, I don't watch anyone else in this category. And so, because of that, most of the ideas I come up with are more contrarian. I'm not getting them from other people. I'm coming up with the idea from scratch. Now, sometimes when you do this, I can be wrong. I can be too confusing. I can be overly complex or I can say something super out there. But doing this and thinking in this way is where contrarian insight comes from. Now, the second component of positioning is messaging. And messaging is how you deliver these contrarian beliefs. This is the style of your words. Whether you're more fact-based or storybased, it's the format that you make the content in, the rhythm, the tone, the style that you deliver. Honestly, this part, the messaging, is mostly dealer's choice. There's no right or wrong way to do the messaging. That's why you can win with content in any niche, in pretty much any format, any style, any way of doing it. There's no one formula. The only two things that are not optional when it comes to messaging are clarity and consistency in sticking to your core contrarian beliefs. Those matter no matter how you show up. But everything else when it comes to messaging is just up to your preferred style. I would just pick someone you like and then emulate them and iterate until you find something you like. Now, one way for choosing how you do this messaging is to add constraints. So, for example, for me, when I started out making content, especially on YouTube, my two constraints were one, I don't want to have to leave this office or move that camera to make content. And two, I don't really want to share all the details of my personal life because I want to create some separation. And based on those constraints, I then worked backwards to figure out what the optimal messaging and format and style that I could use while still satisfying those constraints. Now, some of you may disagree with those constraints and be like, "Oh, if you want to create, you got to fly out in the world and create." But that's the beauty of the internet is anyone can come up with their own constraints and then operate within that. All right. The third component that matters for positioning is signal. Signal is the density or frequency for how often you deliver something interesting or valuable in your content. Think about it like this. Out of 100 minutes that you've engaged with content from someone, how many of those minutes were valuable to you? The higher that percentage, the stickier your messaging and the deeper your association will go. This is another reason why you are the niche is an inferior strategy. If you're making content about four different things and you're incredible when it comes to video storytelling, but only 30 out of a 100 minutes are even aimed at that, well then the best your signal could be is 30 out of 100 relative to that viewer. If someone else is applying 100 minutes towards video storytelling and they're horrible, but they're 31% hit rate, they have more signal than you. This is why you don't want to fracture your topic coverage too much. Now, the way to keep signal high is to make your content minutes non-obvious and tactically implementable. Non-obvious means new relative to the viewer watching. And tactically implementable means they can take what you say and apply it on their own and get the result you're promising. I say those two words so much, but they are the most important thing when it comes to signal. Now, the fourth and last component of positioning is taste. And taste is this funny word that people throw around as a proxy for quality. But here's how I define the word taste. Taste is the consistency of your choices over time aligned with what the viewer thinks is quality. Think about the people that you believe have top tier taste. The reason you believe that is because the things they choose to associate themselves with, the products, the objects, the people, the settings, the messages, you perceive those things to all be high quality. And of course, quality is subjective from person to person. That's why taste is this subjective mushy word. But really all taste is from your perspective is the consistent curation of choice. Now the reason taste matters when it comes to personal branding and association is because when people deem you to have high taste they put a premium on the weight of your association. Basically they value your opinion more for whatever reason. Now to clarify one thing when it comes to taste. Taste is just the choosing. It's just a curation of choice. If you think about the design or visuals of how something comes up, that's more aesthetics, not taste. And we'll cover that in the fourth piece. Now, before we end positioning, because it's so important, I just want to zoom out for a second and frame it this one way. All personal branding really is is a blend between your expertise and your personality. Those two things together equal personal brand. And the four things we just covered roll up to expertise and personality. your beliefs and signal that is your expertise and your messaging the way you share those beliefs and your taste the way you curate the choice that is your personality. Those things combine to create a personal brand. And it's important to note that different categories in the market reward different mixes of expertise verse personality. Consumer niches almost always prioritize personality over expertise, but B2B is the reverse. Typically, if you have more expertise than personality, you can cut through. The reason I bring that up is that if you want a winning personal brand, you almost always need some degree of both. Expertise and personality. These things ladder up to it. But how much you need maps to whichever category you're in. So just to summarize positioning before we move on. Association is choosing your category. Positioning is how you actually message in the content so that you can carve your own lane within it. The essence of positioning, really the most important thing, is contrarian framing. What do you believe that most people don't? And how do you share those contrarian beliefs? Once you have those contrarian thoughts, you want to deliver them clear, consistently, and as high signal as possible. That is how you build a competitive position and maximize your stickiness within a category. Now, like the others, I will show you how positioning plugs into the full personal brand formula at the end. But just note, this is how you really ramp up the stickiness and carve your own lane. All right, the fourth and final pillar of personal branding is world building or world design. And funny enough, when I was getting started with content many, many years ago, the very first category that I tried to build personal brand association with was worldbuilding. I wanted to be the worldbuilding guy cuz I was so obsessed with understanding how the best personal brands and business brands architected their world on the internet. Now, since then, I've obviously jumped around topic-wise and now I kind of aligned with AI and content strategy, but I've been thinking about world building for like 5 years and so I have kind of a lot of thoughts formed on it. World building is the way you design the ecosystem that you play in. [music] And from my view, there are six core components that make up world design. You've got surfaces, objects, characters, citizens, aesthetics, and interoperability. Let me quickly break down each one of those and how you can tactically apply them to improve your personal brand. The first component is surfaces. And surfaces are simply where you play, the different places that you show up on the internet. Now, digitally that would be your social platforms, YouTube, Twitter, your emails, all the way down to your product pages, your landing pages, even like Spotify playlists. Basically, any pixel that you communicate through is a surface that you can control. Now, I'm focused on the digital ones here, but even the physical surfaces matter as well. Your home, your school, your work, your community. Now, almost every surface has its own way of communicating. But the most important thing is that you have consistency across how you show up. And when I say consistent, it doesn't mean that the content needs to be formatted the same, but it's that the core contrarian beliefs and the way you represent your messaging is consistent across. Now, the relief that you probably will be happy to hear is that you don't need to show up on every surface from day one. Ideally, you're everywhere in a premium way, but most people don't have the resources for that at the beginning, and so they have to make a trade-off. The second component when it comes to world building is objects. And objects are the items or products that you show up with in the content. This could be like the Casey Neistat glasses, the Peter McKinnon coffee, the Steve Jobs black turtleneck. Not every personal brand needs an object, but when you have it and they work, it really sticks because objects seem to stick in people's brains more so than amorphous ideas. The third component when it comes to world building are characters. And characters are other people that show up in the content with you, especially if you're building a multiplayer world. For example, Mr. Beast has the boys, Colin has Samir, Samir has Colin. Now, you don't have to have other characters in your content if you're playing the content game alone, but if you do, it's a huge advantage because it's aligned interest across multiple people that can broadcast this same association. The fourth component of world building are the citizens. And I think of citizens like the audience members that eventually become a part of your world. They're the ones who follow you and then eventually become advocates and personal brand amplifiers to help spread your messaging and association. The more similar and densely packed your citizen profile is, the faster your audience will compound. Now, the fifth component when it comes to world building are aesthetics. And I alluded to this a little bit before when I talked about taste. Aesthetics are the visual side of how you show up. It's your design language, your colors, the surfaces, the textures you use. And this is really what makes taste visible. Like we said, taste is just the curation of choice. It's you choosing to align or associate with certain things. Aesthetics are the visual representation of how those decisions come to life. If we were all building worlds of just words and sound, well then aesthetics wouldn't matter that much. But we live in a visual world. And so I think aesthetics have a huge impact on shaping how people interact with the messaging that you share. Now, the last component that makes up world building that most people don't think about is interoperability. Think of interoperability like the connective tissue that brings all your different surfaces together. These are the rails that seamlessly carry someone from one surface to the next. From a short form video to a YouTube video to email and to a community. Without interoperability, your surfaces are just a pile of random islands that don't connect together. But with it, all of your different surfaces become one world where attention can seamlessly flow between. So that really is world building in a nutshell. There are six components: surfaces, objects, characters, citizens, aesthetics, and interoperability. And those make up the way that your world is construed. Now, so far we've covered the four elements that matter for a personal brand. Association, obsession, positioning, and world building. But the million-dollar question really is, how do these four things fit together tactically? Like, what can you actually take from this video today and implement so that you can start positively scaling your personal brand right away? And here's the answer. This is the personal brand formula. It's what I alluded to at the beginning. And this is kind of how I think about personal branding to compare apples to apples. no matter what category that you're playing in. Personal brand value equals viewers time minutes time stickiness. And let me break this down because everything will click for you once you hear how this works. The first variable is number of viewers. And this is very simply just the number of people who get exposed to you with respect to the association or the connection between you and the category you're talking about. The more people you can reach in a single shot, the more efficient you are at building that association. This is why wider content formats matter. The most optimal wide format is short form video. Whether it's made natively by you or clips of you from others. The second variable is number of content minutes. This is the number of minutes someone spends seeing or hearing you connected to that association. And there are really only two ways to rack up content minutes. In person, which basically doesn't scale unless you do huge events, or content, which is essentially infinitely scalable for the same effort. So, if you want to increase content minutes, you're really optimizing for two things. One is just more minutes made. Literally, a higher volume of content with more minutes for people to consume. And two is more minutes on target. And this means you have a narrower topic selection so that more of the minutes you actually make create a connection or association with the thing you're trying to connect to. Now, the third variable, and the most important one that most people don't think about, is the stickiness factor. Because not all content minutes are held equal. The stickiness factor is like a multiplier on those minutes and it determines which minutes actually acrue trust to your association and which ones are just junk food. Now there's something specific about stickiness. I call it Callaway's law. The length of a piece of content is directly correlated to how sticky the minutes are. So a short form video 1 minute is way less sticky than 1 minute from a long form video which is way less sticky than 1 minute from a live stream. And that's because there is a compounding effect that happens in the stickiness when someone watches many minutes in a row of your content. And this is why long- form formats are so important for association. So there are a few things that drive stickiness up. There's five of them. Longer formats for depth, showing up across multiple surfaces for repetition, more contrarian beliefs, higher signal, and clearer messaging. Now, here's the thing that will tie the whole video together. This is really the cherry on top. Look at what's actually in that formula. Viewers, minutes, stickiness. That corresponds perfectly to world building, obsession, and positioning. World building are the surfaces you get viewers on. Obsession is how you ramp up the minutes. And positioning is how you make your messaging stickier, clear with higher signal. But notice what's missing from the formula. Association. The important thing to realize is that association is not an input to the formula. It's the output. The formula is a machine that builds association. So it's really association equals worldbuing times obsession times positioning. When you think about it, the obsession generates the minutes. The positioning makes those minutes stick and then the world building spreads those minutes out across. And all those are meant to drive association to burn your name into a category that people associate deeply. Now this is what I'd actually do if I were you to run this right now. This is the recipe I would run first to maximize number of viewers. I would pick a short form platform either Instagram or LinkedIn and I would make as much content as possible tied to my association. To maximize ontarget content minutes, I'm going high volume as max as I can. The discipline you need is to keep within that association. That's why you want narrow topic discipline, but you need as high volume as possible to maximize stickiness. I'm picking one long form platform, ideally YouTube. And this is to build depth and to keep pushing your contrarian beliefs. If you put that together, that is the modern personal brand stack. One short form platform for reach, one long form platform for depth, and one nurture platform, ideally email or private community to enrich the relationship with the citizens as they come through. That's all you need. The cadence I recommend is seven short form videos a week, one to two long forms a week, and you're good to go. And this last part is the thing that most people don't want to hear. This is going to take hundreds and hundreds of posts. There is no version where 3 weeks of posting will end up with you dominating a category. But the good thing is this formula will work for every single niche and it works every single time. You just have to have the patience and the discipline and the obsession to run it as long as it takes. And that is the art of personal branding. And it's not really an art. It's just a formula. All right guys, that is all I've got for this video. As always, as you can tell, I'm trying my absolute best to push the boundaries and come up with stuff that you just cannot normally see in this space. If you're a business owner and you're trying to use content to grow your business, hopefully you can tell this will be one of the highest signal and most valuable channels you could possibly watch. So, make sure to like, subscribe, and most importantly, drop in the comments what you're stuck with when it comes to content because I use those to inform future videos that I make. Don't forget to check the description. I put a ton of free resources in there every single time. My goal is to help 1 million business owners generate $1 million in revenue from content. That'd be a $1 trillion market impact. If I can do that, we'll call it a career. In order to do that, I got to share a lot of this stuff for free. And so, there's so much in the description that you should check out. If you want to see my whole content system, shortformsystem.co. Like I mentioned before, it's free. It's a great resource for you to learn from. All right, guys. We will see you on the next one. Peace.
